---
layout: default
title: Accounts
parent: Getting Started
nav_order: 1
---

## **Accounts**
### **GitHub**
* Before starting, you should sign up for a GitHub account first. Click [here](https://github.com/signup/free) to sign up; if you already have one, please ignore this step.
* To gain access to the SNO+ organization, email snopluscode@snolab.ca and include your GitHub username, your full name and institution.
* For specific instructions on GitHub and using git, please follow the new users guide [here](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/)

---
 
### **Compute Canada**
This account will be one of the most important accounts, since many other accounts require your CC account information.
* You can click [here](https://www.computecanada.ca/research-portal/account-management/apply-for-an-account/) to apply for an account if you do not have one.    While applying for the account, you need a sponsor's approval; please email Carsten Krauss (carsten@ualberta.ca) as he is the current SNO+ sponsor.

---

### **Cedar**
After receiving your Compute Canada account, you can gain access to our primary computing site called Cedar, following the steps below:
1. Login to Cedar in your personal account first by entering the command:
```bash
ssh <CC username>@cedar.computecanada.ca
```
2. If that is successful, run:
```bash
echo $ID
```
3. Copy the ID generated by the command above, send **this ID**, your **CC username** and your **public SSH key** (for more information, click [here](./tools.md#ssh-key)) to erming.pei@computecanada.ca to get access to our primary production and processing account called **snoprod**. Once you are granted access, you can follow the next steps to sign into it.

4. Go to `~/.ssh` where you generated your ssh key by running `cd ~/.ssh`. To login, try:
```bash
ssh -i <private ssh key file name> snoprod@cedar.computecanada.ca
```

---

### **Liverpool**
Getting access to liverpool is similar to Cedar: 

1. Email **fay@hep.ph.liv.ac.uk** or **jbland@hep.ph.liv.ac.uk** with your **public ssh key** (see [here](./tools.md#ssh-key) for how to generate an ssh key).
After the key is installed, run `cd ~/.ssh` to navigate to your SSH directory.

2. To log in, run:
```bash
ssh -i <private ssh key file name> snoplusprod@snoplusprod.ph.liv.ac.uk
```

---

### **SNOLAB**
* To obtain a SNOLAB account, you need your supervisor to follow the instruction [here](https://www.snolab.ca/orbeon/fr/ComputingSupport/NewSNOLABUserAccount/new). **Remeber to join mailing lists after receiving your SNOLAB account** (see [here](./tools.md#mailing-lists) for detail).

---

### **Illume** (only necessary under specific circumstances)
* To apply for an account on Illume, you can email the administrator, **Jamie Rajewski** at **jrajewsk@ualberta.ca**. After the account has been approved, you will receive your account and a temporary password, then you can log in to the cluster and change your password using:
```bash
ssh <username>@login.illume.systems
```
For specific instructions, see [here](https://sites.google.com/ualberta.ca/illume/home).
